readme.md, before:

#Useful Snippets of commandline code

# General Information o7

* The `^` (carat) symbol is often used to denote the `Ctrl` button so `^C` means `Ctrl+C`
* `NO_PUBKEY` error? Make sure to add keys via something like 
  
  ```bash
wget http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/PATH/TO/KEY/Release.key

apt-key add - < Release.key
```

### SCP

References: http://www.hypexr.org/linux_scp_help.php

Copy the file "foobar.txt" from the local host to a remote host

`scp foobar.txt your_username@remotehost.edu:/some/remote/directory`

To copy a directory:

`scp -r "path/to/directory" your_username@remotehost.edu:/some/remote/directory`

## SSH keys

http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2008/11/3-steps-to-perform-ssh-login-without-password-using-ssh-keygen-ssh-copy-id/

Copy your ssh key to another machine to avoid typing in passwords

`ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub remote-host`

Alternatively use my script `the_keymaker.sh` to automate this process a bit. Also maintains a nicer ssh config file.


## Tar

untar
`tar -xvf filename`

## Process Management

Find all the processes that contain a word, such as all python processes
`ps aux | grep <search string>` - shows a lot of output including the path of the file and args (more detailed)
`ps -e | grep <search string>` - shows the PID and the process name (much cleaner)

Parallelize processes.
Using the code below command1 and command2 will be run in the background and command3 will be run normally. The benefit is when a SIGINT (via `^C`) is sent, all 3 commands will be killed.
```
trap 'kill %1 kill %2' SIGINT
command1 & command2 & command3
```

## Grep

Use status code to determine if that line of text exists in that file.
`grep -Fxq "line of text" /path/to/file` 

Search a directory recursively for a term. (Ignores case, only searches text files, and shows a line above and below the matched term)
`grep -ainr -B 1 -A 1 "TERM" /DIR/TO/SEARCH`

# Useful CLI programs to install/uses

* Woof
  * Simple file server
* mpv
  * Commandline media player
* tmux
  * Terminal multiplexer. Better than screen (debatably) and useful for servers.
  * 
* [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/)
  * like `sed` for JSON data
  

## Git - Useful snippets and common gotchas

* [Oh crap I commited to the current branch but I wanted to make a new one](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1628563/move-the-most-recent-commits-to-a-new-branch-with-git)
* 

# TODO

* Eventually split this into better chunks/files.
* Add useful snippets for diffregits

Commit message:

Added ctrl+L clear command thanks to @seaneganx

readme.md, after:

#Useful Snippets of commandline code

# General Information o7

* The `^` (carat) symbol is often used to denote the `Ctrl` button so `^C` means `Ctrl+C`
* `NO_PUBKEY` error? Make sure to add keys via something like 
  
  ```bash
wget http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/PATH/TO/KEY/Release.key

apt-key add - < Release.key
```
* Use `^L` (`Ctrl+L`) to clear the terminal, even if using a sub-program like mongo or python's interactive shells.

### SCP

References: http://www.hypexr.org/linux_scp_help.php

Copy the file "foobar.txt" from the local host to a remote host

`scp foobar.txt your_username@remotehost.edu:/some/remote/directory`

To copy a directory:

`scp -r "path/to/directory" your_username@remotehost.edu:/some/remote/directory`

## SSH keys

http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2008/11/3-steps-to-perform-ssh-login-without-password-using-ssh-keygen-ssh-copy-id/

Copy your ssh key to another machine to avoid typing in passwords

`ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub remote-host`

Alternatively use my script `the_keymaker.sh` to automate this process a bit. Also maintains a nicer ssh config file.


## Tar

untar
`tar -xvf filename`

## Process Management

Find all the processes that contain a word, such as all python processes
`ps aux | grep <search string>` - shows a lot of output including the path of the file and args (more detailed)
`ps -e | grep <search string>` - shows the PID and the process name (much cleaner)

Parallelize processes.
Using the code below command1 and command2 will be run in the background and command3 will be run normally. The benefit is when a SIGINT (via `^C`) is sent, all 3 commands will be killed.
```
trap 'kill %1 kill %2' SIGINT
command1 & command2 & command3
```

## Grep

Use status code to determine if that line of text exists in that file.
`grep -Fxq "line of text" /path/to/file` 

Search a directory recursively for a term. (Ignores case, only searches text files, and shows a line above and below the matched term)
`grep -ainr -B 1 -A 1 "TERM" /DIR/TO/SEARCH`

# Useful CLI programs to install/uses

* Woof
  * Simple file server
* mpv
  * Commandline media player
* tmux
  * Terminal multiplexer. Better than screen (debatably) and useful for servers.
  * 
* [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/)
  * like `sed` for JSON data
  

## Git - Useful snippets and common gotchas

* [Oh crap I commited to the current branch but I wanted to make a new one](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1628563/move-the-most-recent-commits-to-a-new-branch-with-git)
* 

# TODO

* Eventually split this into better chunks/files.
* Add useful snippets for diffregits
